---
layout: post
title: "FW/1 Roadmap, DI/1 etc"
date: 2011-03-19 18:56:31 -0700
comments: true
categories: [roadmap, fw1, di1]
---
Last year I'd talked about getting at least an alpha of FW/1 2.0 out the door by year end. It didn't happen. I was reminded of this on the [FW/1 mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/framework-one) the other day and I provided a fairly detailed response on the plans for FW/1. I figured, since I haven't blogged about FW/1 in a while, I should post that roadmap response on my blog as well.<!-- more -->

Is the 1.x version outdated?
---
No, the 1.x stream will continue to be supported. It will get bug fixes but it will not get new feature - except where I want to provide a migration path for people moving to 2.0 (for example, if I remove certain things marked deprecated in the docs, I'll provide the new API in a 1.x build to make it easier for folks to transition to 2.0). Expect at least a 1.3 version, possibly more. These versions will continue to support CFMX7+ as well as the older versions of Railo and OpenBD that 1.2 currently runs on.

Wasn't 2.0 imminent late last year?
---
Yes, FW/1 2.0 was very imminent at that point but work and then conference preparations overwhelmed me and it got put on the back burner for a while, along with DI/1.

Since a respite is coming in my day job (World Singles) - we're launching the second phase of our new platform soon - and I have a couple of months before the next conference, I expect to get back on top of FW/1 2.0 soon and once an alpha of that is available, I'll work on DI/1 to get an alpha of that out as well. And then I'll probably focus on cfmljure for a while, as we start to add Clojure to our production code base at work. And then it'll be beta versions of FW/1 2.0 and DI/1 and cfmljure, round and round, until they're all three "baked" and ready for official releases.

So DI/1 is coming?
---
Yes, DI/1 is still on my radar - I have plans for it at work so it will definitely happen! It's just been delayed (ironically, by the pressures of work). Since FW/1 2.0, DI/1 1.0 and cfmljure 1.0 will all be used in my production code at work, you can expect them to receive regular updates once I actually get to the alpha releases!

 
