---
layout: post
title: "FW/1 4.0 and Beyond"
date: 2016-01-05 22:20
comments: true
categories: [releases, fw1, di1, aop1, clojure]
author: Sean Corfield
---
Happy New Year and Welcome to 2016!

FW/1 3.5 has been out for a few months now and I want to talk about what's coming this year.<!-- more -->
FW/1 4.0 is well under way and the themes are REST APIs and enhancements to DI/1. You can read [the FW/1 4.0 change log](http://framework-one.github.io/documentation/4.0/changes.html) here to see how much has been done so far. There are [only a few issues left for 4.0](https://github.com/framework-one/fw1/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A4.0) so we're close to the first Alpha release at this point.

Why the 4.0 version? A major version number change indicates breaking changes. 4.0 drops support for Adobe ColdFusion 9.0.x because it relies on closures. Frankly, I'd like to drop support for Adobe ColdFusion 10 so I could rely on using member functions, but I feel it's important to support two major versions. Just bear in mind that Raijin -- ColdFusion 2016 -- is coming and when that's released, I will drop support for ACF10!

Aside from the minimum version support, FW/1 4.0 includes a (potentially) breaking change around `property` declarations: if a `property` includes a type or default, it will no longer be considered for injection. In FW/1 3.5, typed properties could be excluded if you specified `omitTypedProperties : true`. That is the default in 4.0 so you can still restore the earlier behavior. In addition, 4.0 now ignores defaulted properties but you can specify `omitDefaultedProperties : false` to override that new behavior.

The next planned version of FW/1 will be 4.5 -- a fairly major release that will pave the way for 5.0, in the same way 2.5 paved the way for 3.0. In 5.0, the request lifecycle methods will move from `Application.cfc` (or your custom CFC that extends `framework.one` in the **Alternative Application Structure**) to a separate CFC, and subsystems will also be able to specify a request lifecycle with a `subsystem.cfc` -- and subsystems with such a CFC will be eagerly loaded at application startup (whereas subsystems are lazily loaded today). In order to provide a smooth upgrade path, FW/1 4.5 will support most of those features but disabled by default and will provide warnings or throw exceptions if the behavior would change in 5.0.

As always, I want FW/1 to be driven by your needs so please raise issues on the [mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/framework-one/) or on [GitHub](https://github.com/framework-one/fw1) so that your voices are heard and can drive future versions of one of CFML's most popular MVC/DI/AOP frameworks!

